# TensorDSE

TensorDSE aims to provide a complete from that allows for a user to map a trained Tensorflow model onto a hardware platform comprised of multiple types of execution units, eg. CPU, GPU and TPU. 

The idea was originally undertaken by Ines Ben Hmidda in her [master's thesis](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/alxhoff/TensorDSE/thesis_report_inesbenhmida.pdf) at TUM,

**Abstract:**
_In recent years, machine learning methods have proven their efficiency and applicability in a_
_broad range of fields and environments. However, the complexity and high computational density_
_they require makes their implementation challenging, particularly in constrained environments_
_like embedded systems. Therefore, on-going research has aimed at accelerating the execution of_
_machine learning methods. Some solutions presented in research involve the use of design space_
_exploration (DSE)._
_In this thesis, a method to accelerate the inference of machine learning models by applying_
_state-of-the-art DSE techniques is presented._
_By representing a machine learning model as an application, and the hardware it is deployed_
_on as the architecture, optimally distributing its execution to accelerate it becomes a system-_
_design level synthesis problem. This problem is modeled according to the Y-chart methodology,_
_which allows the comparison of design points quantitatively according to performance data._
_Evaluating all design points is challenging when dealing with such complex algorithms. Hence,_
_the design space is explored with an efficient algorithm selected from the existent methods used_
_in DSE. The problem is then represented as an optimization for system-level DSE. The results_
_of the optimization reside in optimal distributions of machine learning workloads to the target_
_hardware architecture. Using SAT-Decoding with an evolutionary algorithm, each proposed_
_solution is guaranteed to be valid and highly optimal._
_An experimental evaluation was performed as a proof of concept of the theory. The evaluation_
_of each design point during the DSE is carried out with a function computing an estimation of_
_the overall execution time. This estimation is deduced from cost models created by performing_
_benchmarks of operations encapsulated in machine learning models on the hardware._
_The design space is represented and explored using existing frameworks. The resulting solu-_
_tions generated by the DSE present optimal mappings, which could accelerate the inference if_
_implemented._
_Thus, it was shown that the application of design space exploration, specifically the Y-chart_
_methodology, at a system-design level, to optimize the distribution of machine learning workloads_
_across heterogeneous hardware systems leads to the acceleration of machine learning models’_
_execution._

For a complete implementation of the work proposed in the original thesis there were a few other parts required to complete the flow, namely:

- Inference operation times should be more accurately benchmarked 
- Communication delays for USB connected TPUs needed to be formulated into the DSE
- Models containing Coral TPU operations must be able to be deployed, according to a generated mapping, to execute specific inference operations on the target execution unit, either the CPU, GPU or TPU.

These works have been developed and a complete flow is in the process of being completed.
